h2. Version 0.10.5

  * hanke: Source CouchDB added (thanks to github.com/stanley).

h2. Version 0.10.4

  * hanke: Typo fixed (thanks to github.com/stanley).

h2. Version 0.10.3

  * hanke: Helpful configuration page in the client at /configure.

h2. Version 0.10.2

  * hanke: Phonetic similarity (e.g. lyterature~) available through Similarity::Phonetic.new(4), see example.

h2. Version 0.10.1

  * hanke: :weights option for queries also ok in the form: { [:cat1, :cat2] => 4 }, where 4 is any weight.

h2. Version 0.10.0

  * hanke: (BREAKING) Total rewrite/exploration of the Application API.
           Stay on 0.9.4 if you don't want to update right now.
  * hanke: Character substitution now configurable. Default is no character substitution.

h2. Version 0.9.4

  * hanke: rake routes: Shows all current URL paths, and if they are processable fast.

h2. Version 0.9.3

  * hanke: Fixed: Querying parameters are not ignored anymore.

h2. Version 0.9.2

  * hanke: Fixed result_hash.entries to return the right amount of entries.
  * hanke: The result_hash#entries now takes a block and replaces the e.g. AR instances with e.g rendered results.
  * hanke: Locale handling fixed.

h2. Version 0.9.1

  * hanke: Delicious missing gem notice if www-delicious gem is missing.
  * hanke: Partial::Subtoken renamed to Partial::Substring.
             Options: down_to -> from, starting_at -> to
  * hanke: Index bundle file handling extracted into specific Index::Files backend.

h2. Version 0.9.0

  * hanke: Jump to 0.9.0 to work on API, release 1.0.0 soon.
  * hanke: Partial indexing now only down to -3, e.g. florian -> partial: floria, flori, flor.
             If you want down_to the first character (florian, floria, flori, flor, flo, fl, f), use:
             field(:some_field_name, :partial => Partial::Subtoken.new(:down_to => 1))
  * hanke: Sources::Delicious.new(user, pass) for indexing your delicious posts.
  * hanke: indexing and querying config now done on tokenizer instances.

h2. Version 0.3.1

  * hanke: Generator gives more informative NoGeneratorError message.

h2. Version 0.3.0

  * hanke: Uses json (index, index weights) and marshal (similarity index) to dump indexes.
  * hanke: Server generator is more helpful (thanks to github.com/kschiess)
  * hanke: Generator for a Sinatra project. (picky-client sinatra project_name)
  * hanke: Helpful client generator. (thanks to github.com/kschiess)

h2. Version 0.2.4

  * hanke: Indexing output, output in general cleaned up.
  * hanke: Better info after generating a new project (thanks kschiess).
  * hanke: Indexer now uses json for the dump files (much faster, slightly larger, thanks to github.com/niko).
  * hanke: JS files rewritten.

h2. Version 0.2.3

  * hanke: Indexer hits filesystem only seldomly.
  * hanke: Internal rename from full index to exact index (visible in index filenames).
  * hanke: Solr Indexing removed until someone needs it. Then we'll talk cash. Just kidding.
  * hanke: Improved Gemfile.

h2. Version 0.2.2

  * hanke: Umlaut handling (i.e. character substitution) now pluggable.
  * hanke: Apps finalization now handled through Ruby callback (thanks to github.com/severin).

h2. Version 0.2.1

  * hanke: Fix for negative partial index values (:partial => Partial::Subtoken.new(:down_to => -3))

h2. Version 0.2.0

  * hanke: Server only uses JSON to encode results.
  * hanke: Client uses only JSON for full and partial queries.

h2. Version 0.1.0

  * hanke: Application interface rewrite. See a freshly created
             project (using picky project <name>).
             Application#add_index.

h2. Version 0.0.9

  * hanke: Cleanup. Frontend example.

h2. Version 0.0.8

  * hanke: Application#add_index instead of Application#type.
  * hanke: Simplified scaffolding.

h2. Version 0.0.7

  * hanke: Gem compiles on install. Do not compile on run.

h2. Version 0.0.6

  * hanke: Removed unnecessary gem dependencies (thanks to niko).
  * hanke: Added CSV to the possible Sources. Sources::CSV.new(:title, :author, :isbn, :file => 'data/books.csv'),
  * hanke: Renamed all instances of SEARCH_* constants to PICKY_*. (Uses RACK_ENV)

h2. Version 0.0.5

  * hanke: config.ru, unicorn.ru now top level in newly created project (more standard).
  * hanke: Port now defined in unicorn.ru (use listen 'host:port').
  * hanke: Enriched callbacks in the JS interface definition (before, success, after).

h2. Version 0.0.4

  * hanke: Interface now created using Picky::Helper.interface or .cached_interface (if you only have a single language in your app).

h2. Version 0.0.3

  * hanke: C-Code cleaned up, removed warnings.

h2. Version 0.0.2

  * hanke: Newly created application better documented.

h2. Version 0.0.1

  * hanke: Initial project. Server (picky) and basic frontend client (picky-client) available.
