h1. Picky

Examples: "laut.de":http://laut.de, "goodfil.ms":http://goodfil.ms, "twixtel.ch":http://twixtel.ch, "wadoku.eu":http://wadoku.eu, "gemsearch.heroku.com":http://gemsearch.heroku.com

h2. The Ruby semantic text search engine.

Take a dive with Picky in "the Getting Started section":http://florianhanke.com/picky/getting_started.html on "http://florianhanke.com/picky":http://florianhanke.com/picky.
Ask questions in the "Picky Mailing List":http://groups.google.com/group/picky-ruby.
See the "changelog":http://github.com/floere/picky/blob/master/history.textile.
Follow for updates on "@picky_rb":http://twitter.com/picky_rb.
Find everything else in "the Picky Wiki":http://github.com/floere/picky/wiki.

h1. System Requirements

* OSX / Linux
* "Ruby 1.9":http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/downloads/
* "Bundler Gem":http://gembundler.com/

for installing and managing Ruby versions, there are two projects:  "rbenv":http://github.com/sstephenson/rbenv and "RVM":http://rvm.beginrescueend.com/.

h1. Installation

<pre><code>gem install picky picky-client picky-generators</code></pre>

h2. The server

The server generates a library example, which you can run right away.

<pre><code># Generates a directory "app_name"
# with a new Picky unicorn server project.

picky generate unicorn_server app_name</code></pre>

<pre><code>cd app_name
bundle install</code></pre>

h3. Index the data

<pre><code>rake index</code></pre>

h3. Start the Picky server

<pre><code>rake start</code></pre>

h3. Try a query!

<pre><code>curl localhost:8080/books?query=test</code></pre>

Don't worry about the strange looking results! The next part (client) will take care of them.

If you're interested anyway: "Results (Format & Structure)":http://github.com/floere/picky/wiki/results-format-and-structure

h2. The client

The client generates an example app for the "library" example backend, using Sinatra.

<pre><code># Generates a directory "app_name"
# with a new Picky Client Sinatra Webapp project.

picky generate sinatra_client app_name</code></pre>

<pre><code>cd app_name
bundle install</code></pre>

h3. Start the app server

<pre><code>unicorn -p 3000</code></pre>

h3. Admire your work

Go to "http://localhost:3000/":http://localhost:3000/ and try the examples.

h2. Your own search

You're probably itching to change the example for your own data. How do you do this?

h3. The server

In the server directory, just type

<pre><code>rake</code></pre>

and it will tell you where to change the server configuration.

h3. The client

Go to "http://localhost:3000/configure":http://localhost:3000/configure and the page will show you how to configure your app server.

h1. Working on Picky

h2. Installing all gems

<pre><code>./install REMOTE</code></pre>

h2. Running integration specs

<pre><code>./integration REMOTE</code></pre>

h2. Running other specs

<pre><code>./specs</code></pre>

h1. Help?

Right here. I'm happy to help! If something doesn't work, send/gist me your application.rb and I'll look into it.

"github (floere)":http://github.com/inbox/new/floere, "twitter (hanke)":http://twitter.com/hanke, "mail (gmail)":mailto:florian.hanke@gmail.com
